.Dd May 4, 2019
.Dt PARCELLITE 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm parcellite
.Nd Lightweight GTK+ Clipboard Manager
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm parcellite
.Op Fl \&?cnp
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a lightweight GTK+ clipboard manager.
This is a stripped down clipboard manager with only basic features,
and a small memory footprint for those who like simplicity.
.Pp
.Nm
features a clipboard CLI.
Unrecognized options and the contents of your standard input
get copied to your clipboard.
See
.Sx CLI EXAMPLES .
.Pp
.Sy Look at the tooltips by hovering over each item in the preferences dialog.
.Pp
By default,
.Nm
runs as a daemon.
In this mode,
.Nm
will keep your clipboard and primary contents safe.
It also displays a status icon (unless
.Fl n
is specified) and preferences.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl \&? , Fl Fl help
Show help options
.It Fl n , Fl Fl no-icon
Do not use status icon
.It Fl c , Fl Fl clipboard
Print clipboard contents
.It Fl p , Fl Fl primary
Print primary contents
.El
.Sh ACTIONS
.Nm Ns 's actions perform commands using the contents of your clipboard.
.Qq %s
in the command is replaced with the clipboard contents.
Use double quotes
.Qq %s
to expand environment variables like
.Ev HOME
to
.Pa /home/your_name .
Use single quotes
\(aq%s\(aq
to feed your action with environment variables without shell expansion.
Use %% if you want a literal %.
See
.Xr printf 3
for more information.
.Sh CLI EXAMPLES
.D1 echo Qo copied to clipboard Qc | parcellite
.D1 parcellite Qo copied to clipboard Qc
.D1 echo Qo copied to clipboard Qc | parcellite -c
.Sh Hotkeys
The available hotkey modifiers are
.Ic <Ctrl> , <Alt> <Shift> , <Release> , <Meta> , <Super> , <Hyper> ,
.Ic <Mod[1\(en5]>
.Sh Preferences
Right-click on the parcellite icon in the systray to access the preferences.
.Sh Behavior Tab
.Ss Clipboards
generally checking all these boxes is appropriate.
.Ss History
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Save history
Save history on close.
.It Position history
Set the location where history appears.
If unchecked, appears where the mouse is.
.It X
X location in pixels.
0 is top of screen.
.It Y
Y location in pixels.
0 is left of screen.
.It Max Data Size (MB)
Set Maximum amount of data to copy for each entry in MBytes.
0 is no limit.
.El
.Ss Miscellaneous
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Search As You Type
If checked, does a search-as-you-type.
Turns red if not found.
Goes to top (Alt-E) line when no chars are entered for search
.It Case Sensitive Search
If checked, does case sensitive search.
.It Ignore Whitespace Only
If checked, will ignore any clipboard additions that contain only whitespace.
.It Trim Whitespace
If checked, will trim whitespace from beginning and end of entry.
.It Trim Newlines
If checked, will replace newlines with spaces.
.El
.Sh Display Tab
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Show in Single line
does nothing.
.It Show in reverse order
reverses the history so the first entry is last and the last is first.
.It Persistent History
Adds a list that is permanent and never goes away.
.It Persistent As Separate List
Enables the persistent history hotkey,
and the persistent history will appear with this key.
.It Persistent On Top
If the above option is checked, this has no effect.
Otherwise, if this option is checked,
the Persistent History will appear on the top of the list.
Unchecked, it appears on the bottom.
.It Paste All Entry Delimiter
Delimiter to denote start of a history entry.
.It Alternate Non-printing Display
If checked, displays tabs, newlines, and spaces with alternate characters.
.It Omit items
refers to omitting characters that don't fit in the history window width.
This is for display only.
.It Multiuser
If checked, enables checking for multiple users.
.It Parcellite Icon Name
Sets the name of the Parcellite icon.
This name is used by gnome, which usually looks in
.Pa /usr/share/pixmaps .
See the Open Desktop Spec for more details.
.El
.Sh History Dialog Behavior
Use the Ctrl or Shift key in conjunction with right-click.
.Pp
If you hold Ctrl, then it toggles the delete on a single item.
.Pp
If you hold Shift while holding down right-click (this is like a right-drag),
then it toggles each item as it enters the item.
.Pp
To complete the delete, hit enter.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Lk http://parcellite.sourceforge.net
.Sh AUTHORS
.An -nosplit
Written by
.An Gilberto Do Xyhthyx Dc Miralla Aq Mt <xyhthyx@gmail.com .
Gilberto is no longer maintaining the project.
.An Rickyrockrat
is his replacement.
.Sh BUGS
Please include your
.Pa ~/.config/parcellite/parcelliterc
file when filing a bug.
This will give me your preferences.
.Pp
Please report any bugs to the bug tracker via
.Lk https://sourceforge.net/projects/parcellite/support SourceForge
Click on
.Dq Bugs
under
.Dq Project Trackers
to file a bug if you are registered with SourceForge.
If not, email rickyrockrat
.Pq Mt rickyrockrat@users.sourceforge.net ,
or click the
.Dq project administrators
in the link above.
